# ABC fuzzy clusteringThe goal of this project is to create a fuzzy clustering algorithm based on the artificial bee colony algorithm. Robustness to the problems of the fuzzy c-means algorithm, in particular when handling many-dimensional data, is important.## CompilationTo compile the C++ code as a Python extension, see the official guide for [Unix-like systems](https://docs.python.org/3/extending/building.html#building) and [Windows](https://docs.python.org/3/extending/windows.html#building-on-windows).The `VECTOR_DIM` preprocessor macro defines the dimensionality of the vectors to be clustered. Wrong dimensionality will result in a runtime error. To cluster vectors of different size than the default 2, override the macro using compiler parameters or manually overwrite it in `abc_plusplus.cpp`.## Python APIThe `abc_plusplus` module contains 4 classes:* `ArtificialBeeColony` - unmodified ABC* `ModArtificialBeeColony` - ABC with DE-inspired mixing stragey* `TournamentArtificialBeeColony` - ABC with tournament selection startegy* `TournamentModArtificialBeeColony` - ABC with both modificationsThe constructors for `ArtificialBeeColony` and `TournamentArtificialBeeColony` accept 4 positional parameters:* the data to be clustered, represented as an `n` by `m` sequence of floats, where `n` is the number of vectors and `m` is dimensionality* the number of clusters (a positive integer)* the size of the population (a positive integer)* the maximum number of iterations for which a solution is retained without any improvement (a positive integer)The constructors for `ModArtificialBeeColony` and `TournamentModArtificialBeeColony` accept 2 additional positional parameters, 6 in total:* the scale factor (a float between 0 and 1)* the modification rate (a float between 0 and 1)All classes define 3 methods:* `optimize` - takes one parameter - the number of iterations. Runs the algorithm for the specified number of iterations and returns the best found solution (as a list of lists of floats). The population is retained between calls.* `fit` - similar to `optimize`, but without a return value.* `score` - returns the fitness score (as a float) of the best currently know solution.## AcknowledgementsBasic algorithm based on:Karaboga, D., Ozturk, C.: Fuzzy clustering with artificial bee colony algorithm.Scientific Research and Essays5(07 2010)Modifications based on:Kumar, A., Kumar, D., Jarial, S.: A hybrid clustering method based on improvedartificial bee colony and fuzzy c-means algorithm. International Journal of ArtificialIntelligence15, 40–60 (01 2017)and:Ouadfel, S., Meshoul, S.: Handling fuzzy image clustering with a modified abcalgorithm. International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications4, 65–74(11 2012).The DIM-set dataset is from:P. Fränti, O. Virmajoki and V. Hautamäki, "Fast agglomerative clustering using a k-nearest neighbor graph", IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 28 (11), 1875-1881, November 2006.The Worms dataset is from:S. Sieranoja and P. Fränti, "Fast and general density peaks clustering", Pattern Recognition Letters, 128, 551-558, December 2019.